Microorganisms2022,10,434
2of 14
Mice drinking sucralose for 6 months exhibit changes in gut bacteria belonging to the
phylum Firmicutes [4], among which Blautia coccoides and Lactobacillus acidophilus have been
shown to play key roles in insulin resistance and lipid metabolism [5,6]. Similarly, mice
drinking sucralose for eleven weeks show glucose intolerance associated with an increased
intestinal abundance of bacteria belonging to the phyla Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria,
such as Bacteroides uniformis and Bifidobacterium longum [2]. Conversely, the effect of sucralose
consumption on gut microbiota composition still shows controversial results in humans.
 Adults consuming 0.136 g sucralose for two 14-day periods showed no changes in the intestinal
abundance of bacteria belonging to the phyla Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria [7]. Likewise, a
clinical study conducted in male volunteers that took 780 mg sucralose for 7 days revealed no
significant effects on the intestinal abundance of bacteria belonging to the phylum Firmicutes [8]
In contrast, a recent study examining fecal samples from thirteen adult volunteers reported
 that sucralose directly increases the abundance of intestinal bacteria belonging to the genera
 Escherichia, Shigell, and Bilophila [9]. As we have outlined here, sucralose intake appears to
associate with dysbiosis-related metabolic alteration. However, the vast majority of studies
have been conducted in experimental animal models and evidence in humans is still uncertain.
We conducted a clinical trial in healthy young adults to investigate the effect of long-
term sucralose ingestion on the intestinal abundance of four bacterial species representative
of the phyla Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes as a primary outcome. As a
secondary outcome, we explored whether sucralose-induced dysbiosis was potentially
linked to alterations in glucose and insulin levels during an oral glucose load.
2. Materials and Methods
2.1.Subjects
 We enrolled 47 healthy adult volunteers of both sexes, who were screened by means
of the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) values ≤2.5 and
body mass index (BMI) 18.5-29.9 kg/m2, aging between 18 and 35 years in this open-label
 randomized clinical trial. All study participants were not habitual consumers of sucralose-
containing products and provided written informed consent to participate in the study. We
conducted this trial in rigorous adherence to the principles described in the 1964 Declaration
of Helsinki and its posterior amendment in 2013 (registration of the ethical code approval:
D1/16/301/03/022). According to a list dispensed, participants agreed to avoid consuming
any non-caloric sweeteners during the study. They also decided to follow a balanced diet
consisting of vegetables, fruits, grains, proteins, and dairy that we recommended according
to the physical activity level and monitored weekly via phone call interview. We also
calculated the amount of protein, carbohydrates, and lipids ingested by each participant
weekly. Moreover, we registered each participant's physical activity levels weekly, which
 mainly consisted of running for no more than forty minutes, two or three days per week. We
excluded volunteers from the study who were previously diagnosed with any of the following
diseases: type 2 diabetes; hypertension; chronic liver disease; kidney disease; malabsorption
disorder; short bowel syndrome; functional gastrointestinal disorders; infectious diseases.
Those who had been pregnant, lactating, or underwent antibiotic therapy in the last six
months were also excluded. We also considered alcohol use and smoking as exclusion criteria
Subjects who agreed to participate in the study reported they usually drank ≥1 drink per
month but <1 drink per week (1 drink = 14 g pure alcohol), and they were lifelong non-
smokers. We eliminated participants from the study who did not attend at least 80% of the
medical consultation and weekly appointments and those who did not drink the bottle of
water or sucralose at least 80% of the ten weeks the study lasted. This study contains partial
results of the work registered at clinicaltrials.gov (identifier code: NCT03703141) and meets
the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) guidelines.
2.2.StudyDesign
Estimation of sample size was performed by the GPower v.3.1.9.2 program, expecting
an effect size of 1.1 with an alpha error of 0.05 and a power of 95% for two independent