Microorganisms 2022,10, 434
10of 14
B
BLA-
r=0.57
LAC
P=0.02
BIF-
r=-0.55
AUCI-
P=0.02
r= 0.63
r=-0.59
r=-0.53
AUCG-
P<0.01
P=0.01
P=0.02
T
T
AUCI
BIF
LAC
BAC
BLA
Figure 5. Heat maps showing correlations between the gut microbiome and glucose and insulin
serum values. (A) Volunteers receiving water for ten weeks showed that AUCG positively correlated
with AUCI and inversely associated with Lactobacillus acidophilus (LAC). Bifidobacterium longum (BIF)
had a positive correlation with LAC. (B) Volunteers drinking sucralose every day for ten weeks
showed a positive association of AUCG with AUCI. Moreover, AUCG inversely correlated with
LAC and Blautia coccoides (BLA). AUCI exhibited a strong inverse relationship with LAC, while LAC
showed a significant positive correlation with Bacteroides uniformis (BAC). We calculated coefficients
(r) and p values by using the Spearman's correlation model. Inverse correlations are stronger as blue
 color increases, whereas positive correlations are stronger as red color increases. We considered a
correlation as significant when p < 0.05. AUCG, area under the curve of glucose; AUCI, area under
the curve of insulin.
4.Discussion
Emerging evidence has linked the effect of sucralose on glucose and insulin blood
levels with changes in the gut microbiome [12-15]. In line with this information, we
confirmed that long-term sucralose consumption causes dysbiosis in healthy non-insulin
resistant young adults, affecting the relative abundance of bacteria mainly belonging to the
phylum Firmicutes.
 In humans, the gut microbiome is composed of over 3 × 1013 bacteria [16], among
which the phylum Firmicutes appear to play a central role in the metabolism of glucose
and insulin [17]. Sucralose ingestion increases the relative amount of Firmicutes as hy-
perglycemia and insulin resistance rise in mice [3]. Patients with hyperinsulinemia and
glucose intolerance show a higher intestinal abundance of Firmicutes, especially Blautia
coccoides [18-20]. Blautia coccoides seem to counter the abnormal glucose and insulin home-
ostasis in patients with metabolic syndrome by producing butyrate that contributes to
maintaining normal blood glucose levels [21,22]. Interestingly, we found that sucralose
ingestion instigates an inverse relationship between AUCG and Blautia coccoides, which
may decrease butyrate levels, inducing increased glucose release during the OGTT. Al-
though plausible, this hypothesis still needs to be responded to by measuring butyrate
levels to know whether changes in the intestinal abundance of Blautia coccoides may lead to
variations in this metabolite and, consequently, an elevation in the AUCG.