Microorganisms2022,10,434
3of14
groups, resulting in 17 individuals per group plus 20% losses for a final sample size of
n = 20 subjects per group. The control group received bottles containing 60 mL of sterile
water each. The sucralose group received bottles equivalent to 48 mg of pure liquid
sucralose (American Health Foods & Ingredients, San Diego, CA, USA) dissolved in
60 mL of sterile water each. All participants had breakfast between 7 and 9 a.m. every
day, and sucralose or water sips were drunk ten minutes before breakfast. Daily ingestion
of 48 mg of sucralose resembles consumption of four commercial Splenda? packets per
day, representing less than 15% of the Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI) set by the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), and less than 5% of the ADI established by the Joint Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) /World Health Organization Expert Committee on Food
Additives (JECFA) [10,11]. At the beginning of the study, all participants were subjected
to an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) for 180 min, using 75 g of glucose dissolved in
sterile water. We obtained blood samples from all study subjects starting with oral glucose
load at min zero and every 15 min for 180 min for quantifying the serum levels of glucose
and insulin using an intravenous catheter closed system. After ten weeks, we performed a
second OGTT in all participants to quantify the blood glucose and insulin levels again, as
described before. We evaluated the adherence rate to water or sucralose consumption in
the weekly appointments by counting empty bottles in a personal interview. At the study's
beginning and end, we requested all participants to bring a stool sample for bacterial DNA
isolation. We stored the stool samples at -80 °C for no more than six months.
2.3.Bacterial SpeciesIdentification
We isolated bacterial DNA from stool samples of all study volunteers using the
QI-Aamp Power Fecal DNA kit (QIAGEN, Germantown, MD, USA). DNA samples
(100 ng/μL) were individually placed in the BIO-RAD CFX96 Real-Time System ther-
mal cycler using SsoAdvanced Universal SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad Laboratories,
Hercules, CA, USA). A Pan-bacteria universal primer was used as a control gene for
CT calculation. Results are expressed as fold change by comparing bacterial gene abun-
dance in triplicates at the beginning and the end of the intervention. Primers sequences
used in this study are as follow: phylum Actinobacteria, species Bifidobacterium longum, for-
ward 5'-CGCACATGCTCATCGAACTG-3' and reverse 5'-GATGATGCCGTCCGAAAACG-
 3' (product length 77 bp); phylum Bacteroidetes, species Bacteroides uniformis, forward
5'-CCAACAGCTTTTCCGGGTTG-3' and reverse 5'-AAGGCCTTCCGAGAGGGTAT-3'
(product length 574 bp); phylum Firmicutes, species Blautia coccoides (formerly known
as Clostridium coccoides), forward 5'-GTAGAGCTGATCCCGAGCAC-3' and reverse 5'-
TCGTACGATACGGAAGCAGC-3′ (product length 792 bp); phylum Firmicutes, species
Lactobacillus acidophilus, forward 5'-GCTTTGCAAGTGTCTGGTGG-3'; reverse 5'-GATG-
TGCCCACGCATCAATC-3' (product length 172 bp); Pan-bacteria universal primer, for-
ward 5'-TCCTACGGGAGGCAGCAGT-3' and reverse 5'-GACTACCAGGGTATCT-
AATCCTGTT-3' (product length 466 bp). Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR)
experiments were reported according to the Minimum Information for Publication of
Quantitative Real-Time PCR Experiments (MIQE) guidelines.
2.4.Statistics
 We evaluated the normality of data using the Shapiro-Wilk test. The primary outcome
of this study was the difference in bacterial abundance. Glucose and insulin levels, before
and after water or sucralose exposure, were considered the secondary outcome. We
analyzed data for glucose and insulin levels from OGTT by two-tailed 2-way ANOVA with
Bonferroni correction. We compared the area under the curve (AUC) of insulin and glucose
before and after water or sucralose exposure by the paired Student's T-test, or the unpaired
Student's T-test, depending on the group comparison. We compared the relative bacterial
abundance by the Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test, or the Mann-Whitney U test,
depending on the group comparison. We showed the results as mean ± standard deviation
or box plot using the GraphPad Prism 7.0 software (GraphPad Software, La Jolla, CA 92037,