Microorganisms 2022,10,434
8 of 14
Besides examining the effect of sucralose on blood glucose and insulin, we also
investigated whether this NAS affected the gut microbiome balance. For Actinobacteria,
 there were no differences between control and sucralose groups when analyzing the relative
 abundance of Bifidobacterium longum at the beginning and the end of the study (Figure 4A).
We found a similar trend for Bacteroidetes, where the relative abundance of Bacteroides
uniformis showed no differences between control and sucralose groups all along with the
 study (Figure 4B). For Firmicutes, volunteers drinking sucralose for ten weeks exhibited a
significant O.6-fold decrease in the relative abundance of Lactobacillus acidophilus compared
to that found basally (p = 0.03) (Figure 4C). In parallel, sucralose intake for ten weeks
induced significant 3 and 4-fold increases in the abundance of Blautia coccoides compared to
the beginning of the study (p = 0.01) and the control group (p = 0.008) (Figure 4D).
B
80
mis
60-
1
40-
100
20-
0
20
ControlSucralose
ControlSucralose
ControlSucralose
ControlSucralose
10 weeks
0 weeks
Oweeks
10weeks
C
D
P= 0.008
P=0.01
15
15-
P=0.03
10
sh
Control SucraloseControl Sucralose
Control Sucralose Control Sucralose
0 weeks
10 weeks
0 weeks
10weeks
Figure 4. Effect of sucralose consumption on the relative abundance of Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes,
and Firmicutes. (A) For the phylum Actinobacteria, there were no differences between control or
sucralose groups in the relative abundance of Bifidobacterium longum at the beginning (o weeks) or
end (10 weeks) of the study. (B) For the phylum Bacteroidetes, there were no differences between
control or sucralose groups in the relative abundance of Bacteroides uniformis at the beginning or end
of the study. (C) For the phylum Firmicutes, participants drinking sucralose for ten weeks exhibited
 a significant decrease in the relative abundance of Lactobacillus acidophilus compared to the beginning
of the study. (D) Volunteers consuming sucralose for ten weeks showed a significant increase in
the relative abundance of Blautia coccoides compared to the beginning of the study and the control
group. We express data as box plots. Depending on the group comparison, we estimated significant
differences using the Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test or the Mann-Whitney U test. We
calculated the fold change of the relative bacterial abundance by normalizing its corresponding value
to 1 at the beginning of the study. We considered a difference as significant when p < 0.05.