Microorganisms 2022,10, 434
11 of 14
Lactobacillus acidophilus is another essential member of the phylum Firmicutes with
prominent actions in regulating insulin and glucose levels. A previous study in Sprague.
Dawley rats demonstrated that low amounts of sucralose have antibacterial effects on Lacto-
bacillus acidophilus [23]. In line with this evidence, our study indicates that sucralose intake
for ten weeks decreases the relative abundance of Lactobacillus acidophilus in non-insulin-
resistant young adults. Considering that consumption of Lactobacillus acidophilus improves
carbohydrate metabolism in obese subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes [24,25], it is
feasible that sucralose contributes to the abnormal insulin and glucose behavior by decreas-
ing the Lactobacillus acidophilus population. Further clinical studies are needed to elucidate
how sucralose reduces the intestinal amount of Lactobacillus acidophilus, contributing to
 altered glucose and insulin values in human beings.
The effects of sucralose consumption on the human gut microbiota are still a matter
of debate. While previous clinical trials report no effects of sucralose on the relative
abundance of intestinal bacteria [7,8], we found that consumption of this NAS increases
the relative abundance of Firmicutes without affecting Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria.
 We may attribute these controversial findings to variations in the experimental design,
 including duration of intervention and sucralose dosage. Ahmad and coworkers provided
sucralose in two 2-week periods, incorporating a 4-week washout period [7]. Furthermore,
according to the FDA, they used 40% of the ADI for sucralose [10,11]. Thomson and their
colleagues performed a short-term clinical study for a week, using 229% of the ADI for
this NAS [8]. Conversely, we opted for a long-term sucralose exposure for 10 weeks, using
48 mg sucralose per day representing less than 15% of the ADI for this NAS. Interestingly,
the effects of sucralose consumption on insulin sensitivity appear in a bell-shaped dose-
response form in humans [26], where the most potent effects present at much lower doses
than those recommended in the ADI [12,13]. The microbiome composition may follow the
same behavior, showing the most notable changes in response to low sucralose amounts. We
think it is of great relevance to clarify whether sucralose acts differently depending on the
size of the dose administered; conducting crossover clinical trials facilitates a comparison
between the effects of low and high amounts of sucralose upon the gut microbiome.
Additionally, we must consider other sources of variation in these results, such as genetic
background, diet habits, and lifestyles, which may modify the effects of sucralose on the
human intestinal microbiome.
The relevance of studying the effects of long-term sucralose consumption on the gut
 microbiome goes beyond insulin homeostasis and glycemic control [27,28]. A study in mice
showed that sucralose ingestion for six weeks increases the relative abundance of bacteria
belonging to the phylum Firmicutes, such as Clostridium symbiosum and Peptostreptococcus
anaerobius [29]. Notably, sucralose-induced intestinal dysbiosis also appeared to aggravate
azoxymethane (AOM)/dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis and colitis-associated
colorectal cancer in these animals [29,30]. Likewise, sucralose ingestion resulted in gut
dysbiosis and pronounced proteomic changes in the liver of mice, where most of the
overexpressed proteins related to enhanced hepatic inflammation [31]. Thus, perturbations
 of intestinal microbiota, mediated by long-term sucralose consumption, not only seem
associated with altered glucose and insulin homeostasis, but also with the promotion of
inflammatory responses in the gut and liver. However, very recent studies also suggest
that NAS, such as sucralose, ameliorates DSS-induced colitis symptoms by improving
the intestinal barrier integrity and reducing intestinal inflammation via gut microbiota
alteration in mice [32]. Therefore, we still need to conduct additional studies to clarify
whether the adverse effects of sucralose on the gut microbiome could also increase the risk
of developing inflammatory diseases, such as colitis and hepatitis in humans.
We are inclined to point out some strengths and limitations of this study. The adherence
rate to water or sucralose consumption was acceptable by standing above 80% in our study
population. Sample size (n = 20 per group) could be a limitation of the study. Regardless,
it was a randomized clinical trial, which included daily follow-ups with volunteers for
10 weeks. Moreover, we should assess the effects of sucralose ingestion on gut microbiota